In this video, you are going to
learn about hash tables
and hash functions.
For example, imagine that you
have a cupboard with
several drawers.
You might want to
place similar objects
in similar drawers.
For example, paper
documents alone,
keys alone, and books alone.
In this video, we will dive
deeper into these concepts.
Let us say you have several
data items and you want to
group them into buckets by
some kind of similarity.
One bucket can hold
more than one item,
and each item is always
assigned to the same bucket.
The results would
be these blue ovals
end up in bucket number 1,
these gray rectangles end
up in bucket number 2,
and these magenta triangles
are assigned to bucket 3.
Now, let's think about how we'd
like to do this
with word vectors.
First, let's assume
that the word vectors have
just one dimension instead of
300 dimensions so each word
is represented by
a single number,
such as 100, 14,
17, 10, and 97.
You need to find a way to
give each vector a hash value
which is a key that tells us
which bucket it's assigned to.
A function that assigns
a hash value is called
a hash function.
In this example, here is
a hash table which
is a set of buckets.
In this case, the hash
table has 10 buckets.
Notice how the word vectors
100 and 10 are
assigned to bucket 0.
The word vector 14 is
assigned to bucket 4 and
the word vectors 17 and 97
are assigned to bucket 7.
Do you notice a pattern?
This formula here is the
hash function that's being
used to assign the word vectors
to their respective buckets.
The modulo operator takes
the remainder after
dividing by 10.
The remainder is
the hash value that
tells us where the word
vector should be stored.
For example, 14 divided by
10 has a remainder of 4
so it goes to bucket 4.
Now, let's build a basic
hash tabling code.
Here's a definition of
a function that takes
in a list of values.
You can think of each value
as a one-dimensional vector.
It also takes in the
number of buckets.
Define the hash function
used in the modulo operator.
Then you create the hash table.
Notice that this is a
dictionary comprehension.
The key is an integer
and the value is
an empty list which you'll
use as a bucket for storage.
For each word vector,
calculate its hash value,
then append it to the
appropriate list.
The hash table that is
returned can be seen in
the notebook that goes
with this lecture.
You'll see that the
hash table is the
same as what you saw
in the previous slide.
Now let's take another look
at this basic hash table.
Recall that your
original goal was to put
similar word vectors
into the same bucket.
But here, it doesn't
look like numbers
that are close to each other
are in the same bucket.
For instance, 10,
14, and 17 are in
different buckets.
Ideally, you want to have
a hash function that
puts similar word vectors in
the same buckets, like this.
To do this, you'll need to use
what's called
locality-sensitive hashing.
Locality is another
word for location.
Sensitive is another
word for caring.
So locality-sensitive hashing is
a hashing method that cares very
deeply about assigning items
based on where they're
located in vector space.
You'll learn about
locality-sensitive hashing next.
You learned a lot of new terms.
You learned about hash values,
hash functions, and buckets.
You have also seen the code
for how to build a hash table
or the equivalence
of the cupboard I
spoke about in the
intro of the video.
In the next video,
we will look at
locality-sensitive hashing.